# Password Manager

NOTE: The deployed site is only for demo and not for real world use, it does not potray the intended purpose of the app and only exists as a demo to showcase the app, expect delays if using it

This app is a Secure, cross-platform, and locally hosted password manager.

## Installation

**WE EXCEPT YOU TO HAVE SOME TECHNICAL KNOW HOW TO GET THE APP STARTED**

You can use the Password Manager as a website or an app. If you choose the latter, you need to *compile the app yourself*. The server for the Password Manager is intended to be hosted on your own server, or on a **vps** you bought. But can be run on your own machine. We will discuss how you can run the Password Manager as an app or as a website.

### General Steps common to all the following steps...

---
Download [PostgresSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/download/) and rememeber the username and password


---
Clone the github repo.

```git
git clone https://github.com/VOTMAN/passwordManager
```
---
Initilize your own .env file with the following exampleenv.txt either in the root folder or the backend folder
```
export DB_HOST = <your_host>
export DB_NAME = <your_db_name>
export DB_USER = <your_username>
export DB_PASS = <your_password>
export DB_PORT = <your_port>
export SECRET_KEY = <your_secret_key>
export JWT_SECRET_KEY = <your_jwt_secret_key>
export ENCRYPT_KEY = <your_encrypt_key> #Must be generated by fernet
```

---
Download the node modules
```
npm i
```
---
Initilize a python virtial environment in the **backend folder**
```python
python -m venv .venv
```
---
Activate the venv
```python
.venv/Scripts/activate
```

or

```
source .venv/bin/activate
```
if you are on mac or linux

---
Install python modules
```python
pip install -r requirments.txt
```
Or use this
```python
pip install bcrypt cryptography psycopg2-binary flask flask_cors flask_jwt_extended python_dotenv
```
---
Run the server
```python
python server.py
```
---

#### WE RECCOMMEND YOU RUN THE SERVER ON UBUNTU SERVER

On linux you can run server as a service so that the server runs in the background and works as long as the ubuntu server is running.

[Use this video as a reference. But don't use gunicorn](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KWIIPKbdxD0)

## Installation Steps for Website

You don't need to do much here. Assuming you have the server running on you local server or a vps and you have the the ip like 192.168.xx.xx. or whatever your vps has provided to you.

1. Go to the root of the project dir.
2. Make sure you are in the main branch in git repo
    ```
    git checkout main
    ```
3. Start the vite server in the terminal
    ```
    npm run dev
    ```
4. You will be given a url like
    ```
    http://localhost:5173/
    http://<your_ip>:5173/
    ```
5. Take it and paste one of these in your browser
6. Click the ⚙ on the top right and paste your server url in the following format
    ```
    http://<your_server_url>:5000/
    ```
7. You are free to change the port as you like but make sure you configure the server to run on that port as well.

Thats it!. You can host the website on your own domain or just run it locally and access your passwords as long as you are connected to your network, if hosted locally. You can access the website from another device if you use the other url with your ip.

## Installation Steps for App

At the time of writing, we need to compile your own app. Use the following links one after the other and so that you are able to compile your app. You will need to follow more steps if you also want a android app, Which will be specifed if necessary. We won't be convering IOS.


**Go to the app branch**

```
git checkout app
```
---

Follow the guide for your respective platforms here - 
*[Prerequisites](https://v2.tauri.app/start/prerequisites/)*

---

**If you want to only build for desktop of your respective OS**

```
npx tauri build
``` 

---

You will need to sign your app if you want to be able to install it on your android phone

Follow this [Guide](https://v2.tauri.app/distribute/sign/android/) to sign the android apk.

It is not necessary to sign your desktop instances but you can do so if you want.

After signing you can run this command

```
npx tauri android build
```

You will need a pretty beffy pc. Sometimes you may encounter errors such as memory overflow, restart your pc and run the command again.
